Intro RFC More Option Selectors (#591)
vmware-tanzu/cartographer: rfc/rfc-0000-more-option-selectors.md

# Meta
[meta]: #meta
- Name: More Option Selectors
- Start Date: 2022-02-04
- Author(s): Waciuma Wanjohi, Ciro Costa
- Status: Draft <!-- Acceptable values: Draft, Approved, On Hold, Superseded -->
- RFC Pull Request: (leave blank)
- Supersedes: N/A

# Summary
[summary]: #summary

RFC 09 introduces the use of the selector MatchFields in supply-chain resource options. These
borrow their shape from
[the selectors defined on Pods](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/labels/#resources-that-support-set-based-requirements).
MatchFields can support matching on all (non-status) fields in the workload object. Carto
options selector should also support the label specific `matchExpressions` and `matchLabels`.

# Motivation
[motivation]: #motivation

> Users may find the MatchLabels syntax simpler than the MatchFields syntax.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users may find the MatchLabels syntax simpler than the MatchFields syntax. MatchLabels is a standard across all k8s objects that have selectors, and MatchExpressions is implemented for Pods and Jobs, meaning these selectors might be more familiar to users.
```

Reviewer 2: Both label and field selectors are widely used across k8s, but typically not combined into a single "selector". I broadly agree that because labels are fields, for this purpose a label selector may seem like syntactic sugar on top of a more generic field selector, but the historical uses are quite different.

# What it is
[what-it-is]: #what-it-is

When definining an option for a blueprint resource, users may use either

> a MatchLabel, MatchExpression, MatchField. Both MatchLabel and MatchExpression

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a MatchLabels, MatchExpressions, MatchFields. Both MatchLabels and MatchExpressions
```

> examine only the labels on a workload. These fields are mutually exclusive for

Reviewer 2: Why limit the Match* fields to be mutually exclusive? Label selectors allow both MatchLabels and MatchExpressions to be used concurrently (the requirements are ANDed together).

Author: Good point. Changed the RFC to match.
